# StreamSpeak_GPT_Assistant


This Streamlit app serves as a virtual assistant powered by ChatGPT, allowing users to interact with it through speech input and receive responses generated by an AI model.

## Introduction

Hi there! I'm here to make your life easier – what can I assist you with?

## Features

- Voice recognition: Utilizes the `speech_recognition` library to recognize speech input from the user through the microphone.
- Text-to-speech conversion: Converts user input and AI-generated responses into audio using the `gTTS` library.
- Interactive UI: Displays user input and AI responses in a visually appealing interface using Streamlit.
- Sidebar customization: Allows users to see the introduction and status updates in the sidebar.
- Azure Speech Services: Utilizes Azure Speech Services for accurate speech recognition.
- OpenAI GPT-3.5 integration: Interprets user input and generates responses using OpenAI's powerful GPT-3.5 model.
- Text-to-speech conversion: Converts the AI-generated responses into audio for playback to the user.


## Usage

1. Run the Streamlit app.
2. Speak into the microphone to ask a question or provide a query.
3. Wait for the virtual assistant to process the input and generate a response.
4. Listen to the response through audio playback.
5. Continue the conversation as needed.
6. Set up Azure Speech Services, OpenAI API, and obtain the necessary credentials.
7. Update the configuration files (`config.json`, `azure_asr.json`, `oztts.json`) with the required credentials and endpoints.


## Installation

To run this app locally, make sure you have the required libraries installed:

```bash
pip install streamlit speech_recognition pydub gtts azure-cognitiveservices-speech
```

```bash
streamlit run application.py
```
